righty ho.
We now know how to do sums the old fashioned way.
At the moment,
we've only looked,
at addition,
which was the be five plus C five plus T five plus C five plus F five.
But they were going to use one of excels built in functions to make do in addition,
a little bit quicker.
But just before we get to that,
let me show you another useful tool that Excel has.
If you quickly want to adult rely on numbers or a group of numbers,
they can make column.
It could be a row,
or it could be any combination of the two.
Let's imagine that we want to find there what the sum of all the values and column D r.
If we slide toe first number by left,
click in drag down until they're all highlighted.
If we look down here at the bottom of excel,
we can see we have a couple of things instantly reported.
We can see that we have a count of nine,
and if we have a look,
we have 123 456789 cells highlighted.
Quite correct,
and we can instantly see that the sum is 59.
Now we have a few more options in here which are easy to get it.
If you just have your mayor Stan over this little bar at the bottom right quick,
this box will appear now just in this area.
Just here are all the things that we can instantly get feedback on these air.
Just tuggle on enough.
So if it's ticked and you don't want it left clicking it on ticks it,
There's hope we wanted C average.
We can click average.
We may want to see minimum and we may want see maximum.
So I've just selected those click off and now you can see instantly.
Excel will tell us the average of this range that you highlighted.
Just here is 6.555 lots of five and six.
The lowest value the men is to.
And if you have a quick look down,
we can see.
Yep,
absolutely.
That's too.
The maximum value is nine on.
We have a couple 23 nines and there,
but it is the highest value,
so quite correct in this almost 59.
So that works in the vertical plane.
You can also come across and Newt in the horizontal plane,
or you can highlight a range of numbers.
So we we selected all of our day to just here.
We can see that the lowest value is zero,
which it probably is.
We've definitely got there there.
The highest value is 15 which is there,
which is quite correct.
We have an average of 7.4.
I can't work that out in my head,
but I'm sure it's right on the total sum.
All of their sales for all of their item for every day is 333.
So they got very useful function for quickly finding land sums.
All the lowest values are the highest values.
Have a play around with it,
and I'm sure you'll find that very useful.
Okay,
let's look at auto sums.
Auto.
Some is a function that's built into Excel that speeds up a basic addition.
Now you'll recall from previous lecture that when we did our tradition,
we we hit equals that we click Selby five them,
plus that may click cell C five them,
plus then d five them,
plus nano moment on hit entering.
Eventually we got to our answer,
so it works.
But it's not quick.
So the auto some seeks to address that problem.
Now.
The thing to remember about auto some is it only sums columns,
so we couldn't use an auto some toe.
Add the this range of values here,
but don't worry.
We'll let we'll come to that in just a few seconds.
But what it can do is automatically add a column.
So what you'll do to use an auto some is left.
Click the column where you want the result to appear,
which will normally be the first blank cell below that,
the list of numbers that you want to add up.
We have two ways to get to auto Some.
We continue to see a hehe in the home ribbon just that or were actually going to go into
one of our other ribbons now and that's the formulas ribbon just up here.
So I'm gonna hover over it,
left click,
and there we can see that our formula ribbon is being displayed on The second option in Is
Auto some.
So if we hover over it without mouse,
we can see we get a little tool tip that tells what it does it automatically add stuff up.
So let's go right ahead.
Left,
click on We can see there that Excel has already written the formula forest.
It's included the equals to tell it.
It's a formula.
It's included the function,
some it's included.
The parentheses,
all the brackets which enclosed the arguments,
the arguments of just the range of data that the function is gonna act upon.
Don't worry about that.
Too much now will become second nature very soon on it's also highlighted the range of the
arguments,
and we can see here that we have cells.
Be five through B 13 highlighted.
And if we look at how that's expressed between the brackets,
we can see that we have be fighting and probably see it a little clearer.
In the formula bar.
We have be five coal on B 13 and all that means is from B five colon,
which means through to sell be 13 his center and they go,
we have our first auto some.
So there you go.
That's how you doing,
Auto?
Some very simple.
Just click it the boss Move your data.
Hit the auto,
some button press enter and they go.
That's how you do in auto some much quicker than select elite cell and hit in plus
repeatedly until you get to the right answer.
Okay.
Next,
we're gonna have looking where we can copy a formalist so we don't have to keep rewriting
the memory time.
We want to use them.
Okay,
So you in the next lecture.